State management comparison document (#172)
software-platform/monorepo: docs/13_state_management_investigation.md

- [onEvent](https://pub.dev/documentation/bloc/latest/bloc/Bloc/onEvent.html) - is the method, called each time the new event added to the bloc.
- [onTransition](https://pub.dev/documentation/bloc/latest/bloc/Bloc/onTransition.html) - is the method, called each time the [transition](https://pub.dev/packages/bloc#glossary) occurs.
- [onError](https://pub.dev/documentation/bloc/latest/bloc/Bloc/onError.html) method is called whenever an error is thrown within `mapEventToState` method.

It is pretty easy to implement centralized analytics if we override these methods.

#### Pros

1. Nicely divided business logic from the application state.
2. Understandable data flow: `UI` -> `Action` -> `Bloc` -> `New State` -> `UI`
3. Embedded dependency injection mechanism.
4. Nice support of [asynchronous programming](#Asynchronous-2).
5. [Well-testable](#Testability-2).
6. Has a clear mechanism of changing the state, so could be [easily debugged](#Debugging-2).
7. It is easy to make a [state snapshot](#State-snapshot-2).

#### Cons

1. Overhead in the creation of the event classes for each action.

> 2. Has a large entry threshold.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Has a medium entry threshold.
```

3. Not the best choice for [reactive](#Reactivity-2) application.
4. Has a lot of [boilerplate](#boilerplate-absence-2) code.

> 5. Has a low level of [maintainability](#Maintainability-2).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Has a medium level of [maintainability](#Maintainability-2).
```

Also, business logic is separated from the UI and split into `actions`, `middlewares`, `reducers`, so we can easily reuse the code.

#### Pros

1. [Asynchronous](#Asynchronous-3) is a part of Redux, but need to create separate functions to do some asynchronous stuff.
2. It has a high level of [maintainability](#Maintainability-3).
3. You can make [state snapshots](#State-snapshot-3).
4. Easy to [debug](#Debugging-3).
5. Support [Undo and redo](#Undo-and-redo-actions-3) actions.
6. Good [testability](#Testability-3).
7. [State immutability](#State-immutability-3) is a core concept.
8. [Ability to use outside Flutter](#Ability-to-use-outside-Flutter-3)
9. [Centralized analytics](#Centralized-analytics-3)
10. Store changes are perfectly predictable.
11. Unidirectional data flow.

### Cons

1. It has a support of [reactivity](#Reactivity-3) but needs to add a separate package.
2. It requires a lot of [boilerplate](#boilerplate-absence-3).
3. [High learning curve](#Easy-to-learn-3).
4. The store will get very large with large applications.
5. Every widget can access to the global store.

## [Provider](https://pub.dev/packages/provider)

> The provider is the state management mechanism based on the flutter `InheritedWidget`, that can expose any kind of state object, including BLoC, streams, futures, and others. Because of its simplicity and flexibility, Google announced at Google I/O ’19 that Provider is now its preferred package for state management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The provider is the state management mechanism based on the flutter `InheritedWidget`, that can expose any kind of state object, including BLoC, streams, futures, and others. Because of its simplicity and flexibility, Google announced at Google I/O ’19 that Provider is now a preferred package for state management.
```

Also, because the `notifyListeners` affects only subscribed listeners, we can find possible errors in predictable places.

#### Undo and redo actions

Score: 0

The Provider package has no support of a feature, like undo/redo.

#### Testability

Score: 5

With the Provider we can use pure Dart classes and functions, a major part of the logic is focused on using public methods to interact with the logic components so we can easily test it.

#### Easy to learn

Score: 5

It has an easy basic concept, consist of `ChangeNotifier`, `ChangeNotifierProvider`, and `Consumer` that easy to learn. Also, these concept and namings are intuitive to understand.

#### Centralized analytics

Score: 1

With `Provider` we have separate models with their own states and methods. That's why we can't easily provide central analytics for application actions. We can create some wrapper functions, and use them to do all actions but it is a lot of manual work and is not convenient, because we will have to provide too many parameters to that wrappers, to make them work well.

#### State immutability

> Score: 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Score: 0
```
given the description

### Descriptions of scores:

- 🌑 - Not implemented
- ⭐ - Very bad
- ⭐⭐ - Bad
- ⭐⭐⭐ - Good
- ⭐⭐⭐🌟 - Very good

## Criteria glossary

- **_Asynchronous_** - means a unit of work runs separately from the main application thread and notifies the calling thread of its completion, failure, or progress.
- **_Reactivity_** - how well app can react to the changes (basic component for reacting is streams so how well it supports data updates from streams).
- **_Boilerplate absence_** - in this case, means how many a programmer must write code(create files) to do minimal jobs.
- **_Maintainability_** - how an application is understood, repaired, or enhanced.
- **_State snapshot_** - is the state of an application at a particular point in time.
- **_Debugging_** - how easy to find issues in the application code.
- **_Undo and redo actions_** - support of jumps to the past or to the future of the application state.
- **_Testability_** - each part of the state management's code easy to test.

> - **_Easy to learn_** - how hard or easy to learn the state management's concept and how intuitive building blocks(classes, functions or widgets) of the state management are?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **_Easy to learn_** - how easy it is to learn the state management's concepts, namings and building blocks.
```

> - **_State immutability_** - A mutable state is a state that can be changed after we create it. The immutable state is a state that cannot be changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **_State immutability_** - how good support of immutable application state.
```

> - **_Ability to use outside Flutter_** - do we have an opportunity to use the package outside of flutter? How easy the package logic can be reused?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **_Ability to use outside Flutter_** - do we have an ability to use the package outside of the Flutter?
```

> - **_Centralized analytics_** - how easy to make centralized analytics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **_Centralized analytics_** - how easy it is to implement single-point interceptor of all app events/state mutations.
```
